---
layout: page
wordpress_id: 14
title: Conductors
---

## Our conductors

The Edinburgh University Music Society, with its three hundred plus members and
regular schedule of performances, is no small ensemble. Combining quality of
music with a wide repertoire, EUMS requires commitment at all levels. The
Society continues to grow in strength, and this is in no small part due to the
dedication of our team of conductors.

### Neil Metcalfe

<img alt="Neil Metcalfe" class="aside" src="/assets/img/people/neil-square.jpg">

Numbering around 200, the EUMS Chorus requires a conductor with a considerable
amount of skill and dedication, not to mention a lot of patience. Thankfully,
our conductor is more than capable of guiding the talents of the Chorus to
bigger and better things year on year.

Neil Metcalfe read music at the University of Edinburgh before taking-up a
scholarship in the opera school of the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and
Drama, where he trained as a r&eacute;p&eacute;titeur, vocal coach, pianist,
continuo player and conductor. He worked for a number of years on the music
staff of Scottish Opera, in opera houses in Australia (Sydney), Germany
(Dortmund), the United States (Pittsburgh), Northern Ireland (Belfast), and
also with many touring companies including Bolshoi Opera, Kirov Opera, Catalan
National Theatre, and Deutsche Oper am Rhein.

As a performer he has recorded for the BBC (most recently with National Girls'
Choir of Scotland) and on the Linn Records label (most recently with Dunedin
Consort in JS Bach's *Mass in B Minor*) and enjoys a busy career as a solo
artist, accompanist, MD and conductor. He has appeared in venues as far afield
as Greenland and Australia in a wide number of genres from musical theatre to
chamber music.

He is also a keen supporter of young people in music; he is chairman of the
Scottish Schools Orchestra, a trustee of Edinburgh Young Musicians, and works
as an examiner and adjudicator. Neil currently holds the posts of musical
director of Edinburgh Grand Opera, Edinburgh Music Theatre Company, Balerno
Theatre Company, our very own EUMS Chorus, Edinburgh Studio Opera, the Maltings
Theatre and Opening Night Productions. He is also lecturer in Performance
Studies at Stevenson College, Edinburgh.

### Peter Keenan

<img alt="Peter Keenan" class="aside" src="/assets/img/people/peter-square.jpg">

Sinfonia has a long history of being led by exciting, fresh faced new
conductors with a knack for bringing out the best in the ensemble and a flask
of coffee to get them through Saturday morning rehearsals.

Peter Keenan joined St Mary's Music School in 2005, where his studies included
composition with Tom David Wilson, viola with Cathy Marwood and piano with
Richard Beauchamp and John Cameron. During this time, Peter was awarded several
prizes for composition and piano recitals in both local and national
competitions.

In 2011 Peter completed the BA (Hons) music degree at the University of York.
During this time Peter began conducting, initially with the Chimera Ensemble
(specialising in contemporary music).  Highlights included Philip Cashian's
Chamber Concerto, Hans Abrahamsen's *Lied in Fall* and his own father, Paul
Keenan's, *The Ruin*. Other highlights include being Music Director of the
University of York Opera Society, with whom he conducted a staged production of
Mozart's *The Magic Flute*.

Peter studies with William Conway and has attended conducting courses with
Peter Stark. He intends to further his studies at postgraduate level, with the
aim of specialising in the operatic oeuvre of Mozart. Peter also works as a
freelance music engraver. He recently contributed to the *Giovanni Simon Mayr
Werkausgabe* (Ricordi) and is currently creating the piano reduction of a new
opera by Pelle Gudmundsen-Holmgreen (Edition Wilhelm Hansen), amongst other
projects.

### Russell Cowieson

<img alt="Russell Cowieson" class="aside" src="/assets/img/people/russell-square.jpg">

Russell Cowieson studied on a McFarlane scholarship at the Royal Scottish
Academy of Music and Drama (winning the premier performance prize, the
Governors Recital prize) and the Guildhall School of Music in London. As a
performer he has appeared with the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, the RSNO
Wind Ensemble, Carol Kidd, Carla Bley and the Stan Tracey Quartet. His
conducting studies were undertaken with Timothy Reynish, Baldur Br&ouml;nnimann
and George Hurst.

He is currently Musical Director of our very own Symphony Orchestra. His work
with EUMS has gained much praise. Our concerts regularly sell out and have seen
Symphony Orchestra tackle a wide range of challenging repertoire. Future plans
include the commencement of work on an exciting new project which will see them
perform James Macmillan's *The Confession of Isobel Gowdie* in Dundee's
Caird Hall, to a specially created choreography for over 200 young dancers.

Deeply committed to education, Russell was the first recipient of the Yamaha
Instrumental Teacher of the Year award. In 2007 Russell was appointed Artistic
Director of the International Wind Festival held at the RSAMD. Since 2008 he
has served regularly on the faculty of the Royal Northern College of Music,
Conductor Training Weekend and since 2009 he has been a member of faculty at
the internationally renowned Canford Summer School of Music as teacher of
conducting. Russell has worked with Young Sinfonia, the RNCM Junior School
Orchestra, RSAMD Wind Orchestra, RSAMD Junior School, as a visiting specialist,
adjudicator and examiner to the RSAMD, with the Scottish Schools Orchestra
Trust, John Currie Singers and Orchestra, Cambridge Holiday Orchestra,
Cambridgeshire Youth Wind Orchestra and Dundee Schools Symphony Orchestra.
