---
layout: page
title: Work in Education
wordpress_id: 46
---

## Work in Education

Every member of EUMS loves the thrill and excitement of performing challenging
music live, and every one of us has at one stage been a youngster looking on at
a performance and wanting to know more. Through our work in education we try to
reach those who haven't had the opportunity to discover if music is something
that can really excite them.

Our ensembles are primarily classical ensembles so a big part of our work in
education is encouraging the promotion of classical music, but we also try to
spread the message that music is thrilling and versatile, and that any genre of
music leads on easily to others.

A lot of our work so far has been with children, but one of our aims for the
future is to work more closely with teenagers; in particular working to inspire
them to continue with music after they leave school. Music-making is a
fantastic thing to do at any age!

Take a look at the <a title="Upcoming projects"
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/category/events/projects/">upcoming
projects</a> part of our website to find out about the ways you can get
involved.

### Spring Education Project

Every Spring we hold our annual Education Project; we collaborate with several
local primary schools to show P5s - P7s what we do. We de-construct an
orchestra and choir, providing a chance for them to learn about classical
music.

We've had a great response from the children in recent years, and as the
project develops we try to tailor it more and more to what cannot be provided
in the classroom. It's a fantastic introduction to classical music, and we hope
to inspire children to take up or continue their own music-making. To find out
more about this project please <a title="Spring Education Project"
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/community/education/springproject/">click here</a>.

> "Be it through being inspired by watching a concert or learning something new
> by speaking to one of our performers, the Edinburgh University Music Society
> provides the perfect environment to enthuse young talent to get involved with
> classical music"

### Young musicians

A great way to introduce your children to classical music is to bring them
along to one of our concerts. Children are always welcome, and we are more than
happy to have a chat with our audience at the interval or after the
performance.

If you're not sure who to speak to, ask for the Community Relations Manager and
they'll be more than happy to introduce you to some of our musicians and
singers. We are always enthusiastic to speak to interested aspiring musicians,
young or old.  Who knows? The young musicians of today are
undoubtedly the Edinburgh University Music Society of tomorrow.

### Drake Music Scotland

EUMS's most recent collaboration has been with the charity *Drake Music
Scotland*, which concentrates on creating opportunities for children and adults
to learn, compose and perform music independently. We are eager to learn from
them about how we can make our ensembles, projects and concerts more easily
accessible to disabled children and adults, and to promote the excellent work
they do.  We very much look forward to working with them in the near future; to
<a title="Drake Music Scotland"
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/community/education/drake/">find
out more about Drake Music Scotland follow this link</a>.

<img title="Music brings delight to everyone!"
src="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/projects/kids02.jpg"
alt="Child playing cello" style="width:437px" width="437" height="240"/>

### Something worth encouraging

At the university level our society tries to provide the best possible musical
opportunities for students as well as non-students through our ensembles, and
we recognise that a high standard of music-making can only be maintained if the
initial inspiration is in place.  EUMS would just like to use this space to say
**a massive thank you to all our music teachers who have inspired us to pursue
our music-making**, and we hope to keep learning from their good work by giving
back to the community what we've found is something worth encouraging.
