---
layout: page
title: Support us
---

## Support us

The EUMS is Scotland’s foremost student music body, giving six concerts a year
within Edinburgh alongside an extensive range of additional performing events.
The society also delivers a pioneering education and community programme, and
has worked closely with several local charities.

Every year the society expands its projects and concerts to give its members
and the wider community a better experience, and to align with our society
mission. We are run entirely by students who volunteer time out of their
degrees through a passion for involvement and inclusion in music.

In our 2011/12 season the society spent just under **£40,000** on our events
and projects, and this figure builds year on year.

As we gain more support we are able to expand our horizons further, putting on
bigger and better concerts and reaching more and more primary and secondary
school pupils. We greatly appreciate support through either [individual
donations](/sponsorship/individual/) or [corporate
sponsorship](/sponsorship/corporate/).

By supporting the EUMS you will be helping the society maintain its high
quality reputation and fulfil its mission to make the finest music available to
the greatest number of people.

For more information, please contact
[sponsorship@eums.org.uk](mailto:sponsorship@eums.org.uk).

### Our supporters

#### Red Dog Music

<!-- image -->

In October 2009 (16 months after first opening its doors) Red Dog Music was
voted “Best Independent Retailer” by the Music Industries Association. They
have continued to act as the UK’s friendliest musical instruments and equipment
retailer, and in this capacity have been expanding their support for community
music organisations, including Edinburgh education charity Drake Music
Scotland. We look forward to building our relationship with Red Dog Music over
the coming months…

See what else they get up to at <http://www.reddogmusic.co.uk>.

#### Alastair Temple Photography

<!-- image -->

Alastair Temple has been supporting the Edinburgh University Music Society for
many years, attending concerts and other events and representing us in his
photography. He has been featured as a freelance photographer and digital
artist on multiple websites and in magazines such as Advanced Photoshop and
Computer Arts Magazine.

To find out more, go to his website at <http://alastairtemple.co.uk>.

#### Copycat Scotland

<!-- image -->

We have been printing with Copycat Scotland for many years, and they continue
to provide us with excellent, fast and personalised service. From printing
event publicity materials and concert programmes to our extensive freshers’
week needs; Copycat are always able to print materials quickly and to a high
standard.

If you want to see what Copycat can offer you, find them at
<http://www.copycatscotland.com>.
