---
layout: page
title: Privacy Policy
wordpress_id: 2059
---

## Privacy Policy

Privacy refers to information we obtain about you and the use we make of it in
the course of our business. If you have any concerns, please [contact
us](/contact-us/).

### Information we gather

One of the basic principles we've followed in designing this website is that we
ask for only the information we need to provide the service you've requested.
As a result, the answer to this question depends almost entirely on how you
choose to make use of our websites and the growing list of website services.
Currently, some website customers provide information in order to take
advantage of the following services:

### Ticket sales

Name, address, phone, e-mail, and debit/credit card information are necessary
for purchase. Please note that debit/credit card information is not stored
beyond the period of transaction and that such details are handled securely by
TicketSource Limited.

### Gold membership

Name, address, and e-mail are held to send your Certificate of Membership and
any paper correspondance to you. Your date of birth is required for
informational purposes only. No financial details are to be held by us, and
should only be handled by your bank or building society.

The Edinburgh University Music Society is committed to protecting the privacy
of users of this website. We do not provide access to your information to any
other organisation.

### Cookies

Cookies are small pieces of information, stored in your browser, which allow us
to identify you as you move through the site. We use this information only to
help improve the site.

<small>
The Edinburgh University Music Society takes reasonable steps to ensure that
data transmitted electronically to the Edinburgh University Music Society via
the site or otherwise and stored by the Edinburgh University Music Society is
not accessed by unauthorised third parties in accordance with the requirements
of the Data Protection Act 1998.
</small>
