---
layout: post
published: true
title: So What The Heck Is EUMS All About?
wordpress_id: 1983
---

**So: you have chosen Edinburgh. You have checked out the [EUSA website](http://www.eusa.ed.ac.uk/freshers2012/). You have found your way here. But why? What on earth is the Edinburgh University Music Society?**

Hopefully this page can help to explain who we are and why you should get
involved with us.

## The Society

We have been making music since 1867, and as the first (and best) student music
society in Scotland we have had a proud position within the musical heritage of
Edinburgh, Scotland and indeed the world. We are also the largest society in
the University of Edinburgh, and as a result we are able to put on bigger and
better events for our members and the community.

![Performing Verdi's Requiem in the McEwan Hall](http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/concerts/mcewan_01.jpg)

Our mission is to bring music to the wider community, and we achieve this
through regular concerts, working with charities, organising education projects
and liaising with other musical organisations, ensuring we do our best to make
classical music easily accessible to all.

The society itself is made up of around 320 members in three classical ensembles: [Chorus](/chorus), [Sinfonia](/sinfonia), and [Symphony Orchestra](/symphony-orchestra).

## Making Music

First and foremost you become a member of EUMS to make music. Our standard of
performance is as close to professional as you can get, and if you don't
believe us then listen to our recent recordings of [Tchaikovsky's *Sixth
Symphony*](http://www.last.fm/music/Edinburgh+University+Music+Society/EUMS+Symphony+Orchestra:+Spring+Concert+2012)
or [Rossini's *Petite Messe
Solenelle*](http://www.last.fm/music/Edinburgh+University+Music+Society/EUMS+Symphony+Orchestra:+Spring+Concert+2012)
on Last.fm. We have recorded with the BBC, and way back in the 1960s
premi&egrave;red Carl Orff's <em>Carmina Burana</em> in Scotland. Our recent
performances of Elgar's <em>Dream of Gerontius</em> and Saint-Sa&euml;ns'
<em>Cello Concerto No. 1</em> have garnered widespread acclaim.</p> <p>These
performances occur as a result of the passion for music of our members, most
drawn from our influx of freshers year on year. We have <a title="Our
Conductors" href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/society/conductors/">three
outstanding conductors</a> who have consistently proven themselves capable of
bringing the best out of our members, and thanks to them each concert takes the
society to new places and brings new delights.</p> <p>[caption id=""
align="aligncenter" width="433"]<a
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/concerts/greyfriars_04.jpg"><img
class=" " title="Russell Cowieson guides EUMS Symphony Orchestra."
src="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/concerts/greyfriars_04.jpg"
alt="Russell Cowieson guides EUMS Symphony Orchestra." width="433"
height="300" /></a> Russell Cowieson guides EUMS Symphony
Orchestra.[/caption]</p> <p>You don't need to be the next Benedetti to play
with us either: our Chorus is non-auditioned meaning anyone of any ability can
join, and Sinfonia do not audition for their string players.</p> <p>We perform
six concerts in three concert series: our Winter concerts showcase each
ensemble; our Spring concerts join one of our orchestras and Chorus for what is
always a breathtakingly epic performance alongside another concert from the
remaining orchestra; our Summer concert, with all three ensembles performing
together under the one roof. Other concerts also take place during the course
of the year, including on tour and as part of our community work.</p>
<h2>Working Hard, Playing Harder</h2><br /> As you will find out, our passion
for music making is at least matched by our love of having a good time: from
ceilidhs to karaoke and from defeating our rival societies at hockey to our
regular evening pub meetings, we do like to let our hair down, and our members
will always be delighted by a new face in the mix. We have all been new to the
society at some point!</p> <p>[caption id="" align="aligncenter" width="517"]<a
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/socials/concert_04.jpg"><img
class=" " title="Always a smiling face when a camera appears..."
src="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/socials/concert_04.jpg"
alt="Always a smiling face when a camera appears..." width="517" height="300"
/></a> Always a smiling face when a camera appears...[/caption]</p> <p>Major
features of the EUMS social calendar include sectional meals, tutti weekend,
carolling, intramural hockey (we can definitely beat our season's best of
second place this year!), pre-tour (voice destroying) karaoke, mass exodus-like
goings to <a title="Royal Scottish National Orchestra"
href="http://www.rsno.org.uk/" target="_blank">RSNO</a> or <a title="Scottish
Chamber Orchestra" href="http://www.sco.org.uk/" target="_blank">SCO</a>
concerts and the highlight of the year: <a title="Go to Facebook"
href="http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.391767124171971.111064.257156434299708&amp;type=3"
target="_blank">The Musoc Ball</a> (a posh meal, giant ceilidh and society-wide
party).</p> <h2>Our Community</h2><br /> As part of our enthusiasm for making
music, we spend the whole year getting stuck in with events across the
community outside the University of Edinburgh. Every year we have expanded our
education projects with local schools, and last year we entertained over 400
pupils in our main Spring event, teaching them about classical music whilst
keeping them grinning.</p> <p>We also have a long record of helping local
charities, and as part of this continuing tradition we will be working with <a
title="Bethany Christian Trust" href="http://www.bethanychristiantrust.com/"
target="_blank">Bethany Trust</a> once more as part of <a
title="#bethanybigsing" href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/2012/bigsing2012/">The
Big Sing 2012</a>. Last year the event was well attended and raised over
&pound;1300 for the charity's <em><a title="Stop Homelessness"
href="http://www.stophomelessness.org.uk/" target="_blank">Stop
Homelessness</a> </em>campaign.</p> <p>[caption id="" align="aligncenter"
width="301"]<a
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/projects/bigsing2011_cheque.jpg"><img
class=" " title="The Big Sing cheque handover..."
src="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/projects/bigsing2011_cheque.jpg"
alt="The Big Sing cheque handover..." width="301" height="300" /></a> The Big
Sing cheque handover...[/caption]</p> <h2>Tour</h2><br /> For most of our
members, past and present, the highlight of their years in the society is tour.
Every year we grab our instruments, vocal chords and a couple of pairs of
knickers (optional) and head off towards the horizon. Recent tours have
explored locations as exotic as France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway,
Spain, and North Wales! This year we are looking set to travel to the continent
once more, though where remains a secret... for now!</p> <p>Tour is the time to
really get to know other members, whilst getting the chance to perform in some
spectacular venues. Amiens Cathedral has to be a highlight of recent years,
with our performance reducing audience members to tears (as we tried not to
well up ourselves). Everyone gets to know everyone, and the memories will
remain with you as highlights of your university career.</p> <p>[caption id=""
align="aligncenter" width="552"]<a
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/tours/society2011_09.jpg"><img
class="   " title="A final gathering outside Amiens Cathedral."
src="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/h500/tours/society2011_09.jpg"
alt="A final gathering outside Amiens Cathedral." width="552" height="216"
/></a> A final gathering outside Amiens Cathedral.[/caption]</p>
