---
layout: page
published: true
title: Get involved
wordpress_id: 10
---

<img class="full" alt="EUMS members, hard at work in rehearsal" src="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/images/w620/rehearsal1.jpg"/>

## Get involved

The Edinburgh University Music Society has a membership running well into the
300s, and thanks to commitment being fuelled by a desire to be involved and a
passion for music rather than a mandatory requirement to attend, the quality of
our performances is very high. Our concerts often sell out, and thanks to our
dedicated members are always a great success.

### Ensembles

The society consists of three ensembles. The largest is **Chorus**, a choir of
around 200 people. It is totally non-auditioned&mdash;you don't even need to be
able to read music.
<a title="EUMS Chorus"
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/society/biography/chorus">Find out more</a>.

<strong>Sinfonia</strong>, an orchestra conducted
by Peter Keenan, consists of auditioned players apart from the string section
which is non-auditioning. They rehearse at the Reid Hall on a Saturday morning.
<a title="EUMS Sinfonia"
href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/society/biography/sinfonia">Find out more about
Sinfonia here</a>.</p></p>
<p>The <strong>Symphony Orchestra</strong>, a large auditioning orchestra of a very high standard, conducted by Russell Cowieson, rehearse on a Monday evening in the Reid Hall. <a title="EUMS Symphony Orchestra" href="http://eums.eusa.ed.ac.uk/society/biography/symphony">Find out more about the Symphony Orchestra here</a>.</p></p>

### Our vision

The society is a great way to meet all sorts of people. No matter what your
musical background, there is always a place for you within one of the
ensembles, allowing you to broaden your musical horizons as well as having a
great time along the way.

Whether you are an undergraduate, postgraduate or just someone who has heard
about what we do, all you have to do is come along and speak to one of our
dedicated committee members.

The society also gets involved with the community, and plays an active role in
bringing music to the schools in and around Edinburgh. In recent years
interaction between the society and the community has increased a great deal,
and there are several annual events that take place involving local primary and
secondary schools and a number of our members, guiding them to create music and
learn new skills whilst also, of course, having fun.

The Edinburgh University Music Society strives to bring out the best in
everyone through the collision of talent and character, and in doing so present
the ability of the University to perform excellent music with versatility and
brilliance.
