---
layout: page
title: Sinfonia
---

<img src="/assets/img/concerts/sinfonia-reid.jpg" alt="Sinfonia performing in the Reid Concert Hall." class="bordered">

## Sinfonia

Sinfonia is a semi-auditioned full symphony orchestra that rehearses every
Saturday morning from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm in the Reid Concert Hall, Bristo
Square under the baton of [Peter Keenan](/conductors/#peter-keenan).

The orchestra aims to provide an opportunity for keen string players to get a
chance to rehearse and perform with a full scale orchestra without the stress
of auditions, whilst also trying to create enough of a challenge for the
auditioned woodwind, brass and percussion sections. Auditions take place during
Freshers Week at the beginning of every academic year and involve performing a
previously selected piece of music as well as some sight reading. All string
players are welcome to join the orchestra without auditioning, although we
expect a standard of at least ABRSM grade 6 (grade 8 is ideal) to cope with the
challenging repertoire.

Like the society's other ensembles, Sinfonia holds a concert towards the end of
every term in venues such as the Reid Concert Hall, Greyfriars Kirk and St
Mary’s Cathedral. Recent concerts have included performances of challenging
works such as Tchaikovsky's *Symphony No. 2* and *Capriccio Italien*, *Pomp and
Circumstance Marches* by Elgar and Sibelius *Symphony No. 3*. [Have a listen to
one of our recordings on Last.fm](http://www.last.fm/music/Edinburgh+University+Music+Society/).

Every other year, the orchestra joins forces with the society’s Chorus to
perform a large scale orchestral and choral piece. Last year such a
collaboration took place with the two ensembles delivering a superb performance
of Mendelssohn’s *Symphony No. 2 "Lobgesang"* in St. Mary’s Cathedral on
Palmerston Place. Sinfonia further serves as a platform for talented student
soloists to perform with a full orchestra. Recently this has included a highly
acclaimed performance of Saint-Sa&euml;ns *Cello Concerto No. 1*.

Last but not least, Sinfonia has a lot to offer from a social perspective too.
Social activities include lunch in Teviot after every rehearsal, as well as
sectional meals and other events with the whole of the society.

For further details, please get in touch with our Sinfonia Manager at
[sinfonia@eums.org.uk](mailto:sinfonia@eums.org.uk).
